GENERAL INTRODUCTION 
MESSAGE FROM OUR FOUNDERS 
Dear Adanian, 
You are now an Staff of Adanian labs limited, and as such our biggest asset. I am pleased to present to you this HR Policy & Procedures Manual that introduces and explains the various policies and guidelines of Adanian labs Limited. 
Our Mission is to actualize the growth of technology across multiple sectors and bring together the best start ups and the best minds in Africa to help shape the future of our continent and the world at large. 
In order to succeed in fulfilling the above Mission, it is of utmost importance that all of us adhere to the policies found in this manual. 
The Manual cannot answer every Staff’s question. However, it is used as the first reference when questions and complaints about staff issues arise. As an essential management communication tool, it outlines Adanian labs policies and helps integrate new staff into Adanian labs work environment by providing the initial sense of organizational direction. 
While we hope our staff’s actions will continue to be positive, Adanian labs may unilaterally, in its discretion, amend, supplement, modify, or eliminate one or more of the benefits, work rules or policies described in this Manual, or any other employment benefits, work rules or policies, without prior notice, from time to time owing to employment legislation and economic conditions dictate. If the provisions are changed, staff will be notified of any updates. Matters that are not addressed in this Manual are regulated by the Labour Laws and any other applicable rules and regulations. 
I encourage you to study this manual to familiarize yourself with our core values, the terms and conditions of employment as well as the benefits that Adanian labs can offer you. While I expect you to observe and comply with this manual I ascertain to you that you can look forward to secured employment and career advancement in our prestigious company. 
Should you need any clarifications please do not hesitate to approach your Supervisor or the HR Manager. Welcome to Adanian labs Global! 
Chief Executive Officer / Founder
ABOUT ADANIAN LABS 
Adanian labs is a venture studio smart tech hub actuating the tech revolution globally from Africa driven by impact, youth, women and wealth creation founded in January 2020. 
At Adanian Labs we use smart technologies to build tech powered Start-ups, and service SME’s, Corporates and governments. We nurture start-ups under 2 years-old into successful and scalable data driven commercial businesses. 
We provide consulting services to corporations and the private sector in support of their digital transformation strategies. 
OUR MISSION STATEMENT 
Actuate the tech revolution for Africa. 
OUR VISION 
A prosperous continent built by a community of resilient, socially and commercially impactful innovations and innovators. 
OUR CORE VALUES 
● Collaboration 
● Innovation 
● Empowerment 
● Excellence 
● Resilience 
● Time consciousness 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
These policies and procedures are made by Adanian labs Ltd and shall apply to all persons employed by Adanian labs. It is therefore a requirement that all staff read and fully understand this HR Policy & Procedures Manual. 
AMENDMENTS 
It is the responsibility of the HR & Administration Manager, working in consultation with the Management team to ensure that the manual is reviewed periodically to ensure that it is kept current and adapts to changes in labour laws and practices. All changes and/or amendments to this Manual shall be approved by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). 
Any policy changes only become effective after the change has been approved by the CEO and approved by the Board of Directors. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Where it appears to the CEO that the interests of the Company need to be safeguarded, he may, subject to consultations with the Management Team, suspend application of any of the provisions of these policies and procedures in any particular case provided that he shall report the matter to the next meeting of the Board of Directors or the appropriate committee. 
DELEGATION 
The Board may delegate any of its functions and powers under these regulations to a Committee of the Board. The CEO may delegate any of his duties and powers under these policies and procedures other than
powers to suspend their application to any Staff of the Company. 
TERMINOLOGY 
“Annual Leave” means the days that an Staff is allowed to be absent from duty every year. 
Human Resource Management Responsibility 
Human resource management is split into three core areas. These are: 
● Shared Services 
● Country Human Resource 
● Global Human capacity Building 
Lines of Service 
The Lines of Service will be primarily responsible for the following areas of human resource management: ● Staff planning and utilization Compensation management: bonuses 
● Staff quality and man specifications Recruitment and sourcing of people 
● Staff management Appraisals, counseling, job experience, supervision, coaching, and career planning 
● Staff development needs identification/provision of training 
● Staff development/encouraging self-directed learning Consistent application of policies ● Career progression management Morale of staff 
● Communication of policies, expectations, decisions, performance (upward/downward communication) 
● Role model leadership 