9.7.2. Severance Pay on illness or disability . 
A staff member separated as a consequence of illness or disability is not entitled to severance payments. However, the staff member will receive payments for any accrued unused leave and accrued pay for time already worked. 
9.8. Termination on Grounds of Disciplinary Offenses 
9.8.1. Summary Dismissal 
Termination of service on grounds of disciplinary offenses including fraud, misappropriation of funds or gross misconduct is dealt with. 
a. Should a staff member of Adanian Labs be guilty of a very serious offense such as a criminal offense, embezzlement, or misappropriation of Adanian labs funds or any other grounds for summary dismissal under the relevant Kenyan labor law, she/he will be liable to “instant” or summary dismissal. Disciplinary offenses such as those described as gross misconduct are liable to summary dismissal.
b. Staff members who are subject to summary dismissal shall not be entitled to pay in lieu of notice 
nor shall they be entitled to severance pay. 
c. If a staff member of Adanian Labs completes twelve months of service clean of any disciplinary warning, she/he will be entitled to have all prior warnings against her/his whether verbal or written wholly expunged. 
9.8.2. Protection of Complainants against Retaliation 
A person who has reported suspected misconduct shall not be subject to any detrimental treatment as a result of reporting the misconduct. Adanain Labs forbids any retaliatory action, and any complaint of retaliation will be investigated and considered gross misconduct. Any questions related to Adanian Labs policies and procedures should be directed to the HR Manager. Unwarranted malicious allegations of misconduct may be regarded as gross misconduct and be subject to disciplinary action. A staff member who reports suspected misconduct may request that his or her name be kept confidential. 
9.8.3. Anonymous Allegations 
A staff member or any other person who chooses to report on an anonymous basis must provide in a timely manner enough information in writing concerning the basis of the allegations. The information provided must present sufficient detail or supporting evidence which amounts to a prima-fascia case for an initial investigation so that the matter can be pursued responsibly. Otherwise, the matter usually cannot be pursued further. Even where anonymous allegations are sufficiently detailed or supported to permit a responsible investigation to be conducted, no final finding of misconduct will be made based solely on the anonymous allegations without independent corroboration. All anonymous allegations, should they remain anonymous, will always be treated with caution by Adanian Labs. 
9.9. Separation due to Death 
In the event of the death of a staff member of Adanian Labs occurring while in the service of the organization, the Manager: Finance & Operations shall report the death promptly to the CEO who will use their discretion to authorize the provision of possible assistance to the family of the deceased with regard to funeral and burial arrangements. Any terminal benefits including gratuity will be paid to the estate of the deceased or to her/his legal next of kin.
9.10. Certification of Service 
Any staff member, on leaving the service of Adanian Labs, shall be given a statement relating to the nature of his or her duties and the length of service. On the staff member’s written request, the statement shall also refer to the quality of his or her work and his or her official conduct. 
9.11. Return of Adanian Labs Property 
Upon the staff member’s separation from service, all Adanian Labs property that has been given to the staff member during the course of his/her employment with the Lab and all property in his/her possession, including, without limitation, mailing lists and company records, office keys, parking permits, security devices, cellular phones and accessories, laptops and other office equipment shall be returned to the IT Office and/or Manager: Finance and Operations. ICT equipment may, however, be purchased from Adanian Labs at an agreed residual value and such purchase is at the discretion of Adanian Labs. 
9.12. Disciplinary Procedures 
a. Investigation: The procedures will allow full investigation of an offense and no action will be taken until the investigation is completed. In cases of serious offenses, the staff members shall be suspended with full pay until the investigation is completed. Investigations will normally start with an initial or preliminary inquiry to determine if there is merit in the allegations of misconduct and sufficient evidence to proceed with a full investigation. 
b. Notification: Where it is determined that there is a sufficient basis to merit an investigation, the staff member will be notified in writing of the alleged misconduct at the onset of the investigation. The notice will include a description of the allegations made against the staff member, and a summary of the staff member's rights and obligations. 
c. Right to Defense: To ensure fairness the staff member concerned will have an opportunity to state his or her case and to be represented by a colleague if so desired. Depending on the level of the staff member being investigated, the CEO or the Board will constitute a Disciplinary Committee. If any witnesses are called to give evidence before the Disciplinary Committee the staff member shall be entitled to be present to cross-examine such witnesses. The staff member may call witnesses in her/his defense. No documentary evidence shall be used against the staff member unless she/he has previously been provided with a copy thereof or unless she/he has been given access thereto. 
d. Rights of Appeal: A staff member has a right of appeal at any stage against any disciplinary action that may be taken. A staff member who wishes to appeal against an administrative decision shall address her/his petition to the CEO within 7 days of receiving notification of the decision. Staff
members also have a further right to appeal to the Board within 7 days from the time she/he 
receives notification of the CEO’s decision after an appeal to the CEO. The decision of the Board shall be final. The Board shall from time to time specify the procedures governing the right of the CEO to appeal a Board disciplinary decision where the CEO is the aggrieved party. 
9.12.1. The Pre-disciplinary Discussion 
This is a chat by the immediate or line Manager with a staff member, which gives the staff member a chance to state his/her case and enable the Manager to do something to try to resolve the problem. This will be regarded as a stage where rather than disciplining a staff member; a directive or advice will be necessary. This may involve problems related to performance, poor time keeping, grooming, etc. The discussion is not recorded, as this is an opportunity for staff to reassess and strategize to improve. For the specific case of a staff member's standard of work or behavior falling below an acceptable level, the immediate Manager will informally make them aware that this is unacceptable and point out how it must be improved. This shall be seen as a counseling session and the immediate Manager will keep a record of the incident. 
9.12.2. Verbal and Written Warning - Minor Offences 
A minor offense will normally be dealt with by the giving of “a verbal warning” followed by a written warning if the verbal warning is not heeded. A record of such warnings must be kept in the confidential file of the staff member. Minor offenses include lateness (not habitual), slackness and ordinary indiscretion. Verbal warning is the first stage of the formal disciplinary action. Normally the Manager is to conduct a formal disciplinary interview and if necessary, issue a verbal/oral warning. The staff member should be forewarned of the purpose of the discussion, so that he/she can bring a colleague (another staff member) to the meeting, if he/she so wishes. 
If the behavior does not change after the first warning, then it will be necessary to hold a further disciplinary interview and if necessary, issue an official written warning. The interview will be held so that the staff member can state her/his case, and once again he/she can bring a colleague to the meeting if he/she so wishes. This meeting will be recorded, and a letter will be sent to the staff member concerned about the offense. This will be signed by the staff member’s Manager with copies to the HR Manager. Staff members receiving written warnings will be required to sign the copy of the warning letter and return it to the HR Manager as an acknowledgement of the receipt of the warning letter.
9.12.3. Further Disciplinary Action 
If the behavior still does not change, the offense may be considered major or serious. It will then be necessary to have a further disciplinary interview, which may result in the issuance of a final warning to be signed by the HR Manager and/or a suspension. The staff member will be notified of the alleged offense and invited to a disciplinary interview on a specified date, to which he/she may bring a colleague of his/her choice. At the interview, the staff member, who may be accompanied by a colleague of his/her choice, will be clearly warned that if there is no improvement, he/she will be dismissed. This letter will be kept in the personal file for six months. The staff member will be advised of the appeal process. 
Normally he/she can appeal to the CEO, or a committee constituted by the CEO within 7 days of receiving the final warning. Should the staff member within a period of one year repeat a major offense for which she/he has been given a written warning or be guilty of another serious offense or have three or more total warnings, be they verbal or written, she/he shall be liable to summary dismissal. 
