9.12.4. Suspension 
The CEO may suspend any staff member with due cause, subject to the institution thereafter of appropriate disciplinary steps as under: 
a. In the case of staff still on probation, the CEO may, with due cause, dismiss a staff member upon seven days' written notice or pay in lieu of notice without reference to any Disciplinary Committee. 
b. In the case of confirmed staff members, a full investigation will have to be undertaken. If the situation warrants suspension, then this shall be imposed by the CEO in consultation with a disciplinary committee constituted by the CEO. 
In the case of the CEO, the board will undertake full investigation and act as the Board deems fit. The board shall execute two types of suspension: 
9.12.5. Suspension with Pay 
A staff member may be suspended with pay to facilitate an investigation. In certain instances, i.e., for instances of suspected or reported gross misconduct or gross breaches of regulations under this Manual, the staff member may be placed on immediate suspension with pay while investigations proceed. The investigation in such cases shall not normally exceed a period of 3 months unless circumstances justify a longer period of investigation (e.g., the involvement of law enforcement offices). After investigations are completed and the staff member is found guilty, the appropriate disciplinary measure shall be administered up to and including termination. Notice of any disciplinary measure taken shall be promptly communicated to the staff member and in any case no later than 7 days after investigations are completed. The staff member still retains the right to defend themselves and the right to appeal the decision made as discussed further above.
Where investigations exonerate a staff member, the staff member shall be recalled to full duty within 7 
days of such investigations being completed. The staff member’s benefits and entitlements shall be protected during any period of suspension except that in the case of international staff, the staff member may not undertake home travel or leave the duty station without the prior written consent of the CEO. 
9.12.6. Suspension without Pay 
This is a disciplinary measure imposed on a staff member where the staff member has been found guilty of misconduct other than gross misconduct after an investigation. Such suspension without pay shall be imposed at the discretion of the CEO on the advice of the Disciplinary Committee and shall not be imposed for a period exceeding 3 months. A suspended member of staff shall not undertake any other form of employment during the suspension. 
9.12.7. Administrative Leave Pending Investigation and the Disciplinary Process 
A staff member may be placed on administrative leave, subject to conditions specified by the CEO, at any time after an allegation of misconduct and pending the initiation of an investigation. Administrative leave may continue throughout an investigation and until the completion of the disciplinary process. A staff member placed on administrative leave pending investigation shall be given a written statement of the reason(s) for such leave and its probable duration, which, so far as practicable, should not exceed three months. 
Administrative leave shall be with full pay except when the CEO decides that exceptional circumstances exist which warrant the placement of a staff member on administrative leave with partial pay or without pay. Placement on administrative leave shall be without prejudice to the rights of the staff member and shall not constitute a disciplinary measure. If administrative leave is without pay and either the allegations of misconduct are subsequently not sustained or it is subsequently found that the conduct at issue does not warrant dismissal or separation, any pay withheld shall be restored without delay. A staff member who has been placed on administrative leave may challenge the decision to place him or her on such leave.

10. WHISTLE-BLOWING POLICY 
Our values place a high standard of personal and professional behavior on us all. We all like to think that we always meet these standards, but we may not. One way of helping ensure high standards and monitoring our achievement in meeting them is to encourage those inside and outside the organization to tell us when we are not doing so. This is sometimes referred to as "Whistle-blowing". 
This Policy sets out our procedures and governance and underpins Adanian labs to meet and maintain high standards of personal & professional behavior. Our policy applies to all permanent and short term staff of the Adanian ecosystem. It also applies to secondees, external consultants, contractors and agency personnel while at Adanian labs. You are not required to have worked at Adanian labs for a minimum amount of time before you can use this policy: You can use the procedure even if you are new to the company 
10.1. Principles of our Whistle-blowing Policy 
We encourage "Whistle-blowing" if staff or third parties believe there is impropriety (financial or otherwise) in any aspect of our behavior, be it in the execution of work, carrying out our assigned roles, or in our dealings with each other and/or third parties. 
We investigate all cases of "Whistle-blowing” and all such investigations will be directed and monitored by the Founders or his delegate. 
We take appropriate actions in the light of those investigations and this will include termination of employment where appropriate. 
We shall always treat "Whistle-blowing" confidentially and whistleblowers can be assured of confidentiality and have no fear of recrimination or retaliation. 
We encourage whistleblowers to identify themselves, but allow them anonymity if they wish. We will provide feedback to whistleblowers if they identify themselves. 
10.2. Procedure for Whistle blowing Policy 
The paragraphs which follow indicate the routes through which allegations of misconduct or malpractice should be raised. However, members of staff may fear that their own position could be jeopardized if they raise a particular concern directly in one of these ways. A member of staff may, therefore, choose to raise a concern in the first instance with the Legal & Compliance Manager, Operations manager, HR Manager, Line Manager/Partner, any member of the Code of Conduct committee or a colleague and ask that person to bring the matter forward on his or her behalf. No detrimental action of any kind will be taken against a person within the firm making a complaint of the nature described above, provided that it is done without malice and in good faith, reasonably believing it to be true. A malicious or vexatious complaint, however, could result in disciplinary action. 
Any allegations raised under the Whistle blowing procedure may be submitted in writing using email or letter, anonymous or otherwise to the Legal & compliance manager (LCM), unless the (LCM) is in some way implicated in the allegation. One may also raise it personally by phone or face to face meeting. 
The Legal & compliance manager will be responsible for investigating the allegation. 
Where an allegation concerns any LCM, the complainant may also raise the allegation with the
Founder, who will investigate. 
If the person making the allegation considers it inappropriate to refer the matter to either the LCM, he/she may raise the matter directly with the founder. 
In Cases where the procedure has been used, the person to whom the allegation is made will acknowledge its receipt and keep a record of action taken. The outcome of an allegation must also be reported to the complainant. 
The whistleblower identity will be kept confidential until a formal investigation is launched. Thereafter, the identity of the person making the allegation may be kept confidential, if requested, unless this is incompatible with a fair investigation (e.g. the need of the person(s) against whom the allegation is made to know the identity of his/her accuser) or unless there is an overriding reason for disclosure. 
In any case the Whistle blower remains dissatisfied with the outcome of the investigation because either (1) they believe the procedures have not been followed properly, or (2) they are convinced that the decision is one which no reasonable person could have reached, there is a right of appeal on these grounds only. 
The Legal & Compliance Manager will appoint a person to hear the appeal.
