Country Human Resource Department 
The role of the Country Human resource Department is primarily to partner with the Lines of Service to accomplish business and human resources objectives within the Adanian ecosystem. This involves: 
● Facilitate the achievement of Human Capital plans and strategies for the Line of Service by partnering with the business on all the above areas. 
● Managing staff information, including staff database as well as personal files 
● Processing of all joiners and leavers and preparing staff related correspondence 
● Coordination of Human Resources related issues Compensation and benefits 
administration/management Monitoring company-wide consistency in policy application ● Developing and recommending policy changes 
● Providing guidance in interpretation of policies and procedures 
● Driving development and implementation of company -wide vision. 
● Driving and facilitating the development and implementation of Adanian Labs People Experience plans on Staff engagement 
● Facilitating resourcing for the shared Service. 
Authorization on Human resource Issues 
Human resource Department is the custodian of all the Human Resource policies
Code of Conduct 
All members of Staff are expected to adhere to the following principles listed below when working with the Adanian Labs. 
a. All Staff members are expected to respect all rules and regulations of the organization. 
b. All Staff members are required to carry out all dealings with people with mutual respect. 
c. All Staff members are required to ensure that correct information regarding Adanian Labs ’s policies and operations is communicated. 
d. All Staff members should not verbally, or in any other way, express their individual preference for candidates and political parties while working or representing Adanian Labs 
e. All Staff members wishing to contest for political post either at municipal, parliamentary and presidential levels should resign from the date of the intra party nominations. 
f. Adanian Labs staff members must make our non-partisan role clear to the government, political parties, and the public. 
g. All Staff members are expected to be of high integrity and conduct the affairs of Adanian Labs in a transparent manner. 
h. All Staff members should follow laid down regulations when handling Adanian Labs ’s property. 
i. All Staff members are not to use media institutions to make official statements on behalf of the organizations unless given written authority to do so by CEO. 
j. All Staff members should not use Adanian Labs official headed papers, seals, or stamps for personal purposes. 
k. All Staff members are responsible to ensure that any loss or damage to organizational property is reported immediately to their line Managers or Manager

1. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT 
It is Adanian Labs policy to endeavor to provide its staff members’ salaries and other terms and conditions of employment that are competitive and also comparable to those offered by other similar tech start-ups with aims and objectives similar to those of Adanian Labs. It is Adanian Labs policy to provide attractive compensation packages to all staff with a view to attract, retain and facilitate the commitment, productivity, and continued motivation of the best professional staff available. For this purpose, it wishes as a minimum to pay salaries and provide benefits that are comparable with those being paid within the tech ecosystem. 
It is the responsibility of the CEO to develop and update the Adanian Labs remuneration policy and structure for all staff members in accordance with the structure of the organization and the authorized staff establishment. 
1.1.1. Salary 
The company policy is to provide attractive compensation packages to all staff with a view to attract, retain and facilitate the commitment, productivity and continued motivation of the best professional staff available. For this purpose it wishes as a minimum to pay salaries and provide benefits that are comparable with those being paid within the startup tech ecosystem. 
Salaries are reviewed annually on 1st July at the discretion of the management. However, in exceptional circumstances it may necessitate salary adjustments at interim dates. 
If a staff member joins the firm after the first working day of a calendar month he/she will be paid for each day they have been in employment in that month. 
The company will make deductions from salaries in accordance with the local country employment laws and practices. 
Advances against monthly salaries will not be made except in special circumstances for which written approval from the country Human resource Leader must be obtained. 
1.1.2. Staff loans 
Adanian Labs limited resources directed for its operation and development of its business. It is therefore not in a position to grant loans to or give guarantees on behalf of staff. However, it is recognized that certain staff members may have financial obligations such and may require the company assistance. 
In such a situation the staff may take up loans from the authorized fintech startup (s) within our ecosystem. Additionally, the staff may have arrangements with the company to assist with external facilities at the staff cost.

1.1.3. Long service recognition 
The company promotes staff retention and shall recognize loyalty to the company, any staff member who has been with the company for five (5) continuous years should receive a gift (cash or otherwise). 
The country's Human resource leader will decide the quantum of the gift and the gift. The gift shall be made for every consecutive three-year period thereafter. 
1.1.4. Overtime 
All staff at the company are not entitled to overtime payments in case the Staff has been working for longer hours the company shall compensate with an extra off day. The company encourages proper planning of work, traveling time between home and the client's premises, within town, on normal working days does not qualify for overtime unless, in exceptional circumstances, the department supervisor will authorize the day off. 
1.1.5. Mobility 
The nature of our ecosystem allows staff to work from different locations and countries when required to work at the locations other than the principal place of work stated in their contracts. 
However, at any point in time, the company must be aware of the location of any staff member. Therefore, staff members are required to keep the designated administrator informed of their whereabouts and itinerary on a daily basis. 
1.1.6. In-country transfers/relocation 
In the five markets we operate we have physical offices with staff. In recognition of limited career progression and training available to staff located in these offices, and networking purposes, staff recruited for, or transferred to these offices may be transferred to the main office. 
The staff member will be paid a reasonable relocation cost at the company’s discretion. However, if the staff leave the company within 18 months of joining/rejoining the company the staff will be required to refund 50% of the relocation costs incurred by the firm. 
1.1.7. Temporary Responsibility Allowances/ Acting - up allowance. 
Acting up/ Temporary Responsibility Allowances (TRA) allowances are payable where an Staff takes on 100% of the duties and responsibilities of a higher graded post for at least 4 weeks. Acting-up is a temporary arrangement and will not exceed 6 months unless for exceptional circumstances e.g., Maternity cover. A management review will take place in 3 months to consider the ongoing nature of the arrangements. Acting up/temporary may occur because of: 
a. Temporarily filling a post until a substantive appointment can be made. 
b. Filling a key post while another Staff is on maternity leave. 
c. Filling a key post to cover long term sickness absence. 
d. Filling a key post as part of a significant organization or service pressure 
e. Filling posts due to other temporary extended leave arrangements e.g., secondments, career breaks.
Wherever possible, the duration of the period of acting -up should be indicated before it commences and 
will be confirmed in writing. In all cases, the arrangements, and requirements for acting up should be regularly reviewed. Arrangements to cover a post through acting- up should be made at the earliest opportunity to ensure the most appropriate cover. Retrospective requests or backdating is not allowed. 
If there is a deputy to the temporarily vacant position, i.e., as clearly outlined within their existing job description, then that Staff should be first for consideration to the acting up position. In the case of more than one individual being eligible to act into the temporary vacancy, it will be necessary for a selection process to occur. Senior manager should bring the opportunity to the attention of all eligible Staffs. If the manager wishes to reach a wider pool of Staffs or has been unsuccessful in identifying a suitable candidate, the acting up opportunities will be advertised internally. 
Temporary Responsibility Allowance (TRA) may be paid to staff members who are taking on additional responsibilities over and above those set out in their job description at either a higher, same, and lower level and for a short period of time. In cases of temporary transfers to a higher grade for a continuous period of at least four weeks (for any reason other than annual leave), an Staff required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the higher grade will receive a salary in accordance with the grading of the post temporarily occupied. The salary that is paid will be the lowest point of the scale for the higher grade assumed unless this would mean no increase in salary, in which case the Staff will be paid one increment (on the higher scale) above his/her normal salary. 
Because this payment is paid on a temporary basis it is not pensionable and does not accrue any other benefits. The Temporary Responsibility Allowance (TRA) is normally awarded for short periods only, (e.g., to cover a vacancy temporarily), not more than 6 months. However, in some instances (e.g., to cover a long-term sickness absence or maternity leave or to allow a department to defer a permanent reorganization or restructuring to a more opportune time) it may be necessary for the temporary appointment to continue beyond the short term. In all cases if the temporary appointment includes the incremental date for the postholder’s substantive post the Staff will automatically receive the usual incremental rise in his/her salary whilst on the higher grade. When he/she reverts back to his/her substantive post the post holder will do so at the incremental point he/she would have been on had there been no TRA. 
