If the Staff undertaking the temporary appointment is at the top of her/his substantive grade and remains in that temporary role for more than 6 months, the staff member may move to the next incremental point
on the higher scale. A management review will take place at 3 months to consider the ongoing nature of 
the arrangements If his/her supervisors consider that the staff member has developed in the post and carried out in full the duties and responsibilities of the higher grade in a more effective and efficient manner because of 
being in the post for so long he/she should be treated as appointed to the post. When he/she reverts back to his/her substantive post the post holder will do so at the incremental point he/she would have been on had there been no TRA. 
Exceptionally, an Staff may be given temporary responsibilities at a higher grade while retaining, in full, his/her existing responsibilities. In these cases, the Staff may be paid additional increments above the lowest point of the higher scale If it is agreed that the circumstances are exceptional the maximum salary to be paid will be the fourth point of the scale for the higher grade. 
In cases where an Staff does not carry out the full duties and responsibilities of the higher grade, an award of an ad hoc TRA payment may be made to the Staff concerned. The amount of such an ad hoc(unplanned) payment will be related to the extent to which the duties and responsibilities have been undertaken and the length of time (including the initial four weeks) for which they have been required to be undertaken. In exceptional cases where an Staff assumes the responsibilities of another post of the same or lower grade, whilst maintaining his/her own duties, an award of an ad hoc TRA payment of 1 or 2 increments within that grade. In considering cases PLP will consider the extent to which the duties and responsibilities of the other post have been undertaken (as in 4 above) having regard to the University’s obligation of care to staff. 
Payment Calculations 
a. Payment will be based on the difference between the substantive grade, the grade of the duties being undertaken, and the percentage of time spent on the new duties. The line Manager should make an assessment against the job description to determine the percentage of the role being undertaken. 
b. The payment will be made on a fixed monthly value for the duration of the period for the additional responsibility allowance. 
1.1.8. Pension Contribution Allowance 
At the moment, Adanian Labs does not run a Pension Scheme. In lieu(instead) of the Pension Scheme, all staff members will be required to establish an Individual Provident Scheme at the approved institution.

1.1.9. o Death of an immediate Family Member 
In case of the death of an immediate family member and after successful probation, Adanian Labs will provide a cash grant of approximately kes 100,000/ or one thousand dollars to the staff member per event to a maximum of two events in any one year. Immediate family member in this case shall mean only one spouse or domestic partner, children, or parents of the staff member. 
2. Attendance and Leave 
2.1. Hours of Work 
Staff members are required to work the normal working hours, which are 9.00 am to 5:00pm Monday to Friday, with one hour for lunch. Adanian Labs reserves the right to alter these working hours from time to time. The official working hours for all staff members are 40 hours in a week. This may differ on day to day due to work demands and flexible working hours, but all staff must account for the standard working hours. Given the nature of Adanain Labs work, staff will be required, from time to time, to work additional hours and undertake travel outside of normal working hours without additional remuneration. 
Flexible working hours can be agreed between staff and line managers considering both individual needs and organizational needs. Such arrangements made within teams will need to be cleared by the Human Resource Manager to ensure they do not jeopardize group activities or other organizational considerations. Any approved flexible working hours are not a right for the staff affected and flexibility is needed since organizational priorities should always take priority when there is conflict in time demands. 
2.2. Attendance Management & Tardiness 
While we do not actively monitor work attendance by Staffs, we expect our staff to adhere to company policies and operate with integrity to manage their time in line with their responsibilities as Staffs of the company. You are required to attend work regularly and within the agreed working patterns and for the stipulated working hours. 
Every staff is required to respond to work emails and reach out to work related issues and arrangements 
For staff who are at clients' premises, you are required to provide information about your whereabouts and keep in touch with the relevant people with regard to client engagements. 
The company has adopted the hybrid system model and awards every staff one day a week to work from home. This must be booked through the ERP system though the check-in system 
Tardiness refers to unscheduled and excessive absences and lateness with regard to your reporting to work or meetings. You are encouraged to attend all work-related meetings on time. 
Repeated tardiness and unauthorized absence from work will result in disciplinary action.
2.3. Time to be accounted for 
Time to be accounted for and reported are the standard hours plus any overtime and excludes lunch periods taken. Daily traveling time for getting to the place of work should not be reported as time worked. Time involved in traveling out of town may be reported as time worked and charged to the respective client. If in any doubt, the assignment partner/ manager should be contacted. 
2.4. Absence from office 
When an absence such as holiday, study leave, out-of-town assignment, or other reason extends over the end of a month, arrangements should be made on the ERP. (Or, in the case of illness, the information necessary to complete it) to be sent to the office by the due date. If necessary, estimates may be included in respect of the last few days of the month and appropriate adjustments made in the following month. 
2.5. Annual leave policy 
The company grants annual leave with pay to its regular staff in recognition of their services, to afford them an annual period of rest and relaxation, and to provide them an opportunity to attend to personal interests and affairs. It is the intent of this policy that staff should normally take their full leave entitlement each year. Staff are strongly encouraged to take their annual entitlement within the leave year. 
2.6. Leave entitlement 
The annual leave year is from 1 January to 31st December each year. No staff member can take more annual leave days than they are entitled to within the leave year. 
2.7. Leave accrual 
Entitlement to paid leave accrues throughout the year on a month by month basis by 1.75 days. The total annual leave are 21 working days 
Management level: Entitlement to paid leave accrues throughout the year on a month by month basis by 2.16 days. The total annual leave are 26 working days 
2.8. Payment in lieu of leave 
The company considers annual leave to be essential to staff wellbeing and no payment will be made in lieu of outstanding vacation entitlement unless a staff member is leaving the company. 
2.9. Leave authorization 
Any leave taken is subject to approval by the immediate supervisor and would normally be expected to give one month notice of any leave requested. The leave request must be done on the company management system and approved within 7 working days 
The Human resource department is the custodian of the leaves and all approved leaves will be signed off by the head of human resource before proceeding to leave. 
2.10. Carrying forward leave 
A staff member needs the written approval from the supervisor to carry forward more than 25% of annual vacation entitlement to the next vacation year. 
However a staff may be allowed to carry forward annual leave days that are not more than 15 months old from the start of the leave earning period. This requires prior written approval by the staff supervisor. All other leave days older that the 15-month period will be forfeited. 
All staff are strongly advised to take their annual entitlement each year.
2.11. Cancellation of approved leave 
If a staff member becomes ill immediately prior to taking his annual leave, then he/she should contact his supervisor to request that the leave is canceled. The staff will then return to work in the normal way after cancellation. 
The current leave entitlement remains unaffected and leave may be taken at a later date. Similarly, if a staff requests cancellation of leave after the start of the period of leave because of sickness, then a medical certificate to cover the period must be provided for the approval of partial leave cancellation. 
2.12. Leaving the company 
When leaving the company it’s at the discretion of the staff and management to determine whether outstanding leave is taken during the period of notice or converted into a taxable cash payment. 
Payment for leave accrued and not taken will be calculated at a rate based on current salary and working days in a year. If a staff member will have exceeded his leave entitlement at the point of leaving, then a deduction will be made from final salary payment on the same basis. 
2.13. Public holidays. 
In addition to annual leave entitlement, staff members are entitled to normal government declared holidays. If in any doubt as to when these days are, staff should refer to the country Human Capital Manager. 
Where a public holiday falls during annual leave an additional day will be allowed in lieu of the public holiday. 
Where a public holiday falls during a period when a staff is working on an assignment then the time will be recorded and compensated with an off day. 
2.14. Sick leave 
In the event that a staff member is ill and cannot attend work, then the staff member should telephone the appropriate supervisor by 9:00 a.m. on the first day of absence and explain the absence. The likely length of absence should be indicated so that work can be reorganized. Any client commitments or pressing work matters should be brought to the attention of the assignment supervisor. 
If the staff member is unable to make contact personally, then arrangements should be made for someone else to make contact on their behalf. 
In the event that a staff needs to take time off to care or attend to a sick child, spouse or dependent this time is allocated to sick leave. However this must be supported appropriately by documentation to avoid abuse with a doctor’s note. 
In the unfortunate event of a miscarriage a staff member may take up to four Weeks sick leave, inclusive of the doctors authorized sick off. Relevant doctors notes will be required in this case of sick leave. This is in recognition that recuperation is not just the physical healing and additional time off is required for emotional wellbeing of the staff. 
2.15. Medical certificates 
A medical certificate signed by the staff member’s medical practitioner or hospital doctor must support sick leave from the second day of absence. 
The certificate should be provided to the Human Capital Department by uploading it on the ERP staff portal and should contain a certification of total anticipated period of absence. Where the period of absence is
extended, then additional certificates should be provided for each subsequent period. The medical certificate should be submitted as soon as possible, but not later than the 5th day of absence. 
