2.17. Compassionate leave 
The company appreciates that there may be some unexpected events in a staffs life that warrants for compassionate leave in such events will include, though are not limited to, bereavement of a member of staff by the death of a close family member e.g. spouse, parent, sibling or child; a serious family problem; and sickness of a dependent child. 
The nature of every staff need for compassionate leave, will vary greatly, and each case will be considered individually. The company reserves the right to (or not to) grant compassionate leave and also to determine the amount of leave given. As a general guideline, compassionate leave will not be more than ten working days in a year and will not be deducted from annual leave entitlement. 
No additional leave days will be granted for events that can be planned for such as marriage or house moving. 
2.18. Bereavement 
In the event that the company loses an Staff, or an Staff loses a parent, child or spouse the following shall be done:- 
2.18.1. A contribution from the Company as follows:- 
Provision of transport to venue of funeral for staffs willing to attend the funeral. This will be up to a maximum of 14. 
Company representation during the funeral and if the venue is far, a visit to the home of the bereaved or funeral arrangement meeting venue. The Company representation will comprise of senior staffs from within the department of the bereaved and/or a representative from HR who will read the message of condolences from Adanian labs. 
The company shall purchase a condolences card and flowers for the bereaved. 
In the event an Staff loses a parent, spouse or child the company will provide 1,000 USD for support.
In the event of the death of an Staff the Company shall provide 1500 USD for support. 
The policy shall apply equally to all members of staff and non-executive directors regardless of gender, age in the organization and status. 
2.19. Maternity and Paternity leave 
Female Staffs shall be entitled to maternity leave with full pay for a maximum of 90 days without forfeiting their annual leave upon giving not less than seven days’ notice in advance or a shorter period, as may be reasonable in the circumstances, of the intention to proceed on maternity leave on a specific date and to return to work thereafter. 
A male Staff shall be entitled to 14 days paternity leave with full pay applicable only for the one family registered with the company. This cannot be postponed to a later date after the birth of the child. 
( this will apply as per each country employment laws dictates) 
2.20. Adoption leave 
A staff member who is the primary caregiver is entitled to up to 8 weeks paid leave for adoption leave as a result of being an adoptive parent during the first year of the child's life. This leave may not be postponed to a later date and is applicable immediately after the adoption. This is in recognition that the primary caregiver and family need to bond with the child. The adoption leave dates should be agreed on giving adequate notice of the planned absence so that working arrangements can be made. 
Handover arrangements should be made and an approved leave submitted to the Human Capital department. 
2.21. Unpaid leave 
A staff member needing leave outside those described above will need to apply for unpaid leave which may be approved at the discretion of the country manager. 
If a staff member is on unpaid leave for more than one month in a financial year, then his annual leave entitlement during that year will be prorated to exclude accrual during the period of unpaid leave. 
2.22. Unauthorized absence 
Absence from work, which does not fall into any the following categories, will be considered unauthorized absence: 
Approved annual leave within personal entitlement or agreed time off in lieu of overtime Sickness absence in accordance with the company procedure 
Absence to attend routine medical or dental appointments and check-in .ups maternity/paternity/adoption leave, 
2.23. Study leave 
The Company will grant study leave for approved professional qualifications. This is 5 days of study leave for each paper and 1 day for the examination for each paper sat. 
Authorized special leave e.g. compassionate or career break, and authorized unpaid leave

3. Recruitment 
The overall employment objective and commitment of the Adanian labs is to recruit a sufficient number of the best and brightest people to meet the estimated present and future human resource needs of each Line of Service. Only candidates who possess the requisite qualifications and experience for their positions and pass the related selection tests may be recruited. Recruitment of experienced staff, where necessary, will require that the candidate has adequate experience including some level of required industry experience. 
3.1. Work environment 
Staff members in the firm are treated and are expected to treat each other with fairness and respect. The company undertakes to provide a work environment that will motivate staffs to contribute to its success and develop themselves 
3.2. Equal employment opportunity 
The company acknowledges every employment opportunity as its major aim is capacity building and creating jobs hence bases every employment decision upon individual merit and capabilities. In pursuit of this policy, staff members are engaged without regard to ethnicity, sex, religion, national origin, marital status, colour or physical disability. 
The company is committed to providing a working environment where equal opportunities are promoted and discriminatory practices are prohibited. It is the obligation of all staff to conduct themselves in a manner that supports this policy at all times. 
Our equal opportunity policy applies to all aspects of employment including recruitment and selection, 
appraisal and coaching, training and promotion, pay and conditions. 
Discrimination or harassment of any kind against colleagues could result in disciplinary proceedings. 
3.3. Workforce diversity 
At Adanian labs we believe in diversity where we incorporate all the characteristics that make us both alike and unique in our backgrounds, cultures, nationalities, lifestyles, identities, points of view, approaches to solving problems, ways of working, and views of personal and career success. Our commitment to diversity is a business imperative tied directly to our bottom line and the future success of our Organization. Diversity enhances overall business performance through our global market understanding, attracting and retaining the best talent, and serving clients through the most effective solutions. 
3.4. Recruitment of staff from clients or other firms 
The company will not actively poach staff working for clients or startups incubated by Adanian labs. However, where such staff approach the Adanian labs on their own volition, they shall be considered for employment like any other applicants. 
In cases where members of a client's or startup staff approach the firm, and we intend to make an offer, then we should tell the candidates of our wish to do so. Further we should advise them that if they intend to accept an offer, we would advise our client or startup of our intention to make an offer, prior to making a formal offer to the candidate.
3.5. Re-engagement of former staff members 
The firm is not normally opposed to the re-engagement of former staff members. However, the decision to re-engage the former staff member will take into account his previous performance, current situation, and the circumstances surrounding the separation. 
3.6. Employment of relatives 
The company does not oppose the employment of relatives of partners, directors, and managers, or those that they may be emotionally involved with, within the same functions in the company, however it discourages principally where the employment of such can create circumstances where: 
Staff members could, in fact or in appearance, benefit or suffer because of the relationship, Internal conflicts of interest or issues of confidentiality may arise, or real or perceived nepotism and/or 
3.7. Health conditions of employment 
Offers of employment are conditional upon a satisfactory medical evaluation, by a medical doctor identified by the company where necessary. 
In addition, medical examinations are required for all partners and staff members at the expense of the firm and at a prescribed frequency as follows: 
All other staff members are required to attend at least one examination every year 
3.8. Confirmation of employment 
All new joiners will undergo a probationary period of six (6) months. On successful completion of this period, confirmation of employment must be made in writing. 
3.9. Business travel and business-related expenses 
3.9.1. Reimbursable expenses 
The company will reimburse reasonable costs actually incurred by staff in the exercise of their business responsibilities. Reimbursements of these costs will be on the basis of actual costs. This will also be subject to the approved budget by the CEO and what is stipulated in the individual contract. 
3.9.2. Accommodation standards 
When working out of station accommodation will be provided in a hotel with a minimum rating of three star or in the best hotel available, where hotels with minimum ratings of three star are not available. 
3.9.3. Travel outside home country 
Air Travel is the standard for business travel. However, road travel may be required for short distances or when it is consistent with local practices or the business purpose for the trip. 
For all Directors and staff, the standard class of air travel is economy class. However, where there is a genuine business reason for traveling business class, then business class can be approved by the CEO. 
When traveling on the company business, staff must make sure they have all the necessary vaccination and Visas 
A staff member performing official assignments and working in excess of 60 days in a given year outside their country of residence will be entitled to a disturbance allowance
