3.9.4. Local travel commuting expenses 
Generally, directors and staff are expected to use the approved transportation company vehicles to travel to and from client locations, both on in-town and out-of-town engagements. If a staff member is involved in an accident when using a personal vehicle on company business, the company will not reimburse any insurance excess. Alternatively, if staff members incur public transport expenses, then they will be reimbursed the cost.

4. 
5. Health and Safety 
5.1. Safety Statement 
As a Nairobi-headquartered organization, Adanian Labs follows the guidelines of and complies with the Occupational Safety and Health Act of Kenya (2007) (the OSHA). The Safety Statement and Risk Assessment below apply to all Adanian Lab staff regardless of location, including: 
a) Staff based at Adanian Labs offices in Nairobi. 
b) Staff working from home. 
c) Traveling on Organisation business 
Many of the issues in the Safety Statement below are generic and apply to all types of offices. Adanian Labs will, subject to the relevant law, undertake Risk Assessment audits periodically to identify issues relating specifically to Adanian Labs and these issues are also included in the Safety Statement. 
If there are any safety, health, and welfare issues that Staff feel are not addressed in this document, they should be brought to the attention of management. No staff member shall be discriminated, dismissed, or disadvantaged in respect of their employment or have their employment position altered to their detriment by reason only that the Staff: 
a) Makes a complaint about a matter which the staff member considers is not safe or is a risk to his health. 
b) Is a member of a safety and health committee established pursuant to the OSHA; or c) Exercises any of his functions as a member of the safety and health committee. 
5.2. Introduction 
This statement sets out the Adanian Labs health & safety policy and the means through which that policy is to be implemented. Our objective is to provide a safe and healthy place of work for all staff members and to meet all our duties and obligations to our clients. It is Adanian Labs’s intention to protect its staff members from accidents or ill health at work. The organization will seek to ensure that all its equipment and systems do not constitute a risk to the Health & Safety of its staff members and Adanian Labs will to the extent reasonable and practical consult with staff members on risk improvements.
5.3. Roles and Responsibilities 
Adanian Labs ’s approach to Health & Safety, as far as is reasonably practicable, will be to provide a safe place of work as well as: 
a) To prevent as far as is reasonably possible, any improper conduct or behavior is likely to put the Safety, Health & Welfare of staff members at risk. 
b) To consult with staff on all Health & Safety matters. 
c) To provide protective clothing and equipment where necessary. 
d) To provide a safe means of entering and leaving the building. 
e) To continue to identify and control hazards. 
f) To provide a safe system of work practices. 
g) To provide appropriate information and training to staff on a regular basis. 
h) To make Health & Safety a key issue. 
5.4. Adanian Labs Responsibilities: 
The responsibility for the provision of a safe place of work rests with the Management of Adanian Labs. Specifically, these responsibilities are: 
a) The provision and maintenance of plants and systems and procedures of work that are safe and without risks to health. 
b) Arrangements for ensuring safety and absence of risks to health in connection with the use, handling, storage and transport of articles and substances. 
c) The provision of such information, instruction, training, and supervision is necessary to ensure the safety and health at work of every staff member. 
d) The maintenance of any workplace under Adanian Labs’s control, in a condition that is safe and without risks to health and the provision and maintenance of means of access to and egress from it that are safe and without such risks to health. 
e) The provision and maintenance of a working environment for every staff member that is safe, without risks to health, and adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for the Staff’s welfare at work. 
f) Informing all staff members of: (a) any risks from new technologies; and (b) any imminent danger; and ensuring that every staff member participates in the application and review of safety and health measures.

5.5. Staff Member Responsibilities: 
As a valued staff member of Adanian Labs, each staff member has a responsibility to themselves and to fellow staff members to carry out their work in a safe and considerate manner. Staff members must: a) Cooperate with Adanian Labs in maintaining a safe workplace. 
b) Report any potential hazards or accidents promptly to their manager and not work in any hazardous conditions should they, in the staff member’s opinion, exist. 
c) Be aware of the nearest emergency and firefighting / first aid equipment. 
d) Never interfere with or misuse anything provided by the Organisation in the interests of Health & Safety. 
e) Read the Organisation Health & Safety statement and obey all mandatory signs and safety and health procedures, requirements, and instructions for the staff member’s own and other Staffs’ safety. 
f) Not partake in any form of horseplay or prank or unbecoming behavior likely to lead to injury to themselves or others as the staff member is responsible to ensure the staff member’s own safety and health and that of other persons who may be affected by the staff member acts or omissions at the workplace. 
At all times wear or use any protective equipment or clothing provided by Adanian Labs for the purpose of preventing risks to the staff member’s safety and health 
5.6. Risk Assessment / Hazard Analysis 
A hazard is anything at work that might cause harm, e.g., electricity, hot surfaces, lifting heavy loads, slippery floors, and poorly lit stairways etc. Staff must be aware of the potential hazards and risks involved and report specific hazards to management. A risk Assessment will be carried out once a year by management in conjunction with a safety and health advisor. The results will be incorporated in this Safety Statement and communicated to all staff as well as the relevant statutory authorities required to be notified under the OSHA. 
5.7. Consultation 
Adanian Labs is committed to consulting with its staff members regarding safety, health, and welfare at work. Staff will be involved in the identification of hazards and trained in dealing with the hazards identified. This Safety Statement will be included in induction training and staff will be advised on how to deal with any problems that arise.
5.8. Reporting of Accidents: 
Staff are required to report all accidents and near misses, whether resulting in injury or not, to their manager and/or the CEO. All accidents will be investigated by a member of the senior management team and a written report prepared and kept in the general register as required under the OSHA. Corrective action will be taken where necessary to avoid a recurrence. Accidents involving persons who are not members of staff but are visiting or working on the premises must also be reported. Under the OSHA, employers are obliged to report certain occurrences to the area occupational safety and health officer as follows: 
a) Where an accident in a workplace, causes the death of a person therein, the employer or shall: ● Inform the area occupational safety and health officer within twenty-four hours of the occurrence of the accident; and 
● Send a written notice of the accident in the prescribed form to the area occupational safety and health officer within seven days of the occurrence of the accident. 
b) Where an accident in a workplace causes non-fatal injuries to a person therein, the employer shall send to the area occupational safety and health officer, a written notice of the accident in the prescribed form within seven days of the occurrence of the accident. 
Members of staff will be required to cooperate with Adanian Labs as necessary to enable Adanian Labs to observe and comply with the above requirements. 
5.9. Safety, Health & Welfare Issues applicable to all Adanian Labs Staff 
The following policies apply to all Adanian Labs staff regardless of location: It is not permissible to attend work under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs. The smoking of tobacco products is prohibited in the Adanian Labs offices. Smoking can take place outside buildings at least 3 meters away from door entrances and windows. This smoking policy forms part of the overall Health & Safety Policy, and any breach will be dealt with.