6. Information Technology (IT) Policies 
6.1. Responsibility for IT security/compliance 
Information regarding the company and our clients is highly valuable and consequently needs to be closely safeguarded. Failure to follow the given guidelines results in breaches of confidentiality, thus posing a risk to our business activities and exposing the Company to risk of legal action. 
Care should be taken to ensure that we don’t lose IP rights and any information hosted system disclosed, modified without authorization or accessed by third parties. 
Sensitive data should be stored securely or destroyed after use to prevent recovery by unauthorized persons. 
6.2. Protecting IT Equipment from damage and theft 
Every Staff given a company IT equipment has the responsibility to 
Look after it and ensure it’s protected from physical damage and theft. 
Laptops and similar portable computer equipment have been issued to certain members of staff. These assets remain the property of the Company, while the staff member has full responsibility for their security. The staff member generally has liability in the event of loss or damage, subject to any care should be taken when moving equipment, as they contain sensitive components. 
Correct carrying cases, briefcases or other cases should be used. Laptops should never be left unattended in a car and should be kept out of sight and out of the reach of children when at home. Under no circumstances should a staff member lend a laptop to someone else unless such loan has been authorized by his line manager. 
6.3. Commitment to data security 
Staff members share responsibility with the Company regarding data protection legislation and therefore must ensure that they keep abreast of and comply with the policy failure to which pose a serious risk to business protection and may result in disciplinary action or dismissal. Management reserves the right to update and amend these policies in accordance with developments in IT systems, processes and IT security. 
6.4. Password protection 
Passwords should be kept confidential. A staff member must not share user IDs or passwords with anyone.

6.5. Viruses 
Staff should be aware of the damage that computer viruses can do to the business, if not managed properly. Therefore, before using any removable media (i.e. floppy discs), e-mail attachments from outside the Company and files 
6.6. Electronic mail (e-mail) 
All e-mail systems and communications made on the system remain the sole property of the Adanian lab and consequently should generally only be used for business-related purposes. The Company reserves the right to inspect the systems at any time. 
The Company reserves the right to access and review the contents of email in the course of an investigation that results from indications of impropriety, to locate substantive information. 
Staff network behavior should be a professional conduct and ethics that they would otherwise maintain as Staffs of the Company. Since any e-mail messages transmitted reflect staff identification with the Company, it is essential that all staff members retain a professional demeanor in all internal and external correspondence; despite the informality of many e- mail/Internet communications that may be received. The Company’s electronic systems should never be used to propagate, disseminate or participate in the propagation of any form of electronic chain letter, or any unlawful, harassing, threatening, obscene or sexually explicit message to anyone within the Company or elsewhere. 
6.7. Use of the internet 
The Internet should be used for official purposes at the workplace. Staff should not misuse or use the internet for personal use or retrieving information that may be considered offensive. 
Inappropriate uses of company IT equipment and systems may lead to disciplinary action or dismissal. In particular staff members must not: 
● access, download, store or forward offensive information such as pornographic material from any sites on the internet, access, download or store non-business related sites, and 
● Send racially or sexually threatening or harassing messages.

7. Performance Management, Coaching and Development & Career progression 
All staff members are subject to an annual performance and salary review. The effective date of this review will be 1 July in each year. The basis of the review is an evaluation of the periodic appraisal reports and other relevant information, the standard of work performed, improvements in productivity, and the progress achieved. 
In addition, the compensation structure is reviewed periodically in line with the cost of living changes. 
Individual staff member's performance may be recognized by an award where the following are demonstrated: 
● extraordinary commitment to the Company ; 
● significant personal sacrifice; 
● Innovative recommendations which strengthen the client's competitive position. 
7.1. Performance appraisals 
It is the Company’s policy for all head of departments in Adanian labs are carry out appraisal biannually year or as per the project timelines 
The aims of the appraisal scheme are: 
● To review past targets and improvement areas as a basis for setting new targets/objectives based on the priorities of the department. 
● To review the appraisee’s performance in achieving his targets, to identify performance strengths and weaknesses in order to help the Staff to improve. 
● To review the appraisee’s career progression and aspirations to plan so that both Adanian labs and the individual’s development plans are met. 
● To review the appraisee’s development and performance shortfalls as a basis for identifying his training needs to enable him to perform his job more effectively and to take on more responsibilities. 
● To clarify any misunderstandings and to rectify any attitudes and assumptions that may be hindering an effective working relationship. 
● To produce records of appraisals for forecasting Adanian labs’ staff's needs for succession planning. 
Staff involved in any assignment/project or specific responsibilities that exceed a certain number of hours (depending on the Line of Service) are subject to performance appraisals from the assignment lead /key reviewer at the completion of the allocated tasks and responsibilities/assignment. In addition, where an
assignment is of a long-term nature an appraisal will be prepared at every quarter end; 
Performance feedback/appraisals should be submitted within two weeks after quarter-end or the end of an assignment. 
Our performance management framework includes the following elements: 
i) Job Description 
ii) Objective/Target setting 
iii) Competence Assessment 
iv) Assessment and results review 
v) Individual development plan 
7.2. Staff Whose Performance Is Below Average 
An Staff whose performance falls below average for the probationary period will be informed of such rating in writing and termination of appointment will be taken up against him/her. 
Prior to that, the following steps shall be taken:- 
i) Put in place a performance enhancement guide to help in structured Staff performance improvement. 
ii) The concerned Staff will receive formal performance improvement plan invitation/commencement notice to discuss the issues concerning the lack of expected performance standards. 
iii) The performance improvement plan (PIP) will run for a period of 3 months with both staffs and line managers filling and signing PIP forms iv) There will be monthly reviews to gauge improvement 
If this does not work out, Adanian labs will have no option but to terminate the services of the concerned Staff. 
