7.3. Training, Coaching/Counseling 
7.3.1. Coaching/Counseling 
Coaching is a mutual discussion to ensure that the staff member is clearly aware of his progress in the Company in terms of past performance and future potential. It also encourages and guides them in developing their careers. 
Staff members should have at least 3 coaching sessions a year with their coach, but the staff member can request a meeting at any time should the need for help, advice or discussion arise. It is vital for the staff member to communicate with his/her coach or HR manager so that the Company can respond to his/her needs. 
Out counseling Situations may arise where: 
● a staff member's performance is below expectations despite coaching and appropriate training assistance or support having been provided, 
● a staff member's performance may be acceptable and meets the requirements of the
position but the level of performance indicates that further advancement is unlikely. 
7.3.2. Training and development 
The company objective is to make its staff expertise in the industry offering and thus providing the staff with training that are both relevant and effective. 
The Company encourages every Staff to seek continuous development throughout their career in the Company through the provision of an appropriate level of structured training provided on the basis of identified needs. Self-training is an integral part of our Continuing Education program. The Company strongly supports staff focus on self-directed learning, and staff are encouraged to take steps to identify self-directed learning tools and to take initiative in self-development. 
7.3.3. Training objectives 
Focus on training commences as soon as the staff member joins the Company. General and industry induction courses are held, and training continues throughout the staff member's career. Each staff member is expected to participate in at least two weeks of qualifying continuing education in each year. Each staff member will be informed when he is nominated to attend a course.Upon nomination, attendance of a training course is compulsory. 
Staff members attend courses, seminars and workshops appropriate to their level of responsibility. The department lead is assigned the responsibility of monitoring the implementation of the training and development plan. 
7.3.4. In-house courses 
The Company provides staff with a comprehensive range of formal courses designed for enhance their understanding of the company and services provided and their managerial and interpersonal skills 
7.3.5. On the job training 
On the job training describes the day-to-day training that staff will receive during their assignments and is considered one of the most effective ways of providing them with the skills and knowledge to be able to carry out the job responsibilities to the standards required. 
Staff work will be arranged to provide increasing responsibility and a progressive broadening of professional experience according to their capabilities. It is the responsibility of staff to make known the type of experience they seek and jointly to agree how to achieve this. 
7.3.6. Multi-skilling 
Each staff member is expected to be multi-skilled where appropriate, i.e. to have a service area of primary interest and excellence, and other area(s) of secondary interest in which he demonstrates an acceptable level of proficiency. 
7.3.7. Student Internship 
Adanian labs Africa encourages availing valuable work experience for students pursuing their studies at various colleges. This will also serve as a bridge between the academic world and the workplace for young professionals who would like to gain hands-on experience and act as one of the Corporate Social Responsibility programs of the Company. This will also be another source of recruitment for further staffing needs.
7.4. Financial arrangements 
While achieving professional status is the responsibility of the individual, the Company will assist by providing financial support for certain examinations. Such support will cover registration and examination fees and the cost of prescribed study materials and tuition. Request for assistance should be discussed with the HR department. 
The Company does not reimburse travel costs incidental to attending classes or sitting for the examination, but expenses incurred to return from a client or an out-of-town assignment for the purpose of examinations, are reimbursable and should be charged to the client. 
Staff members are expected to pass their examinations at the first attempt, but may be permitted to make a second and third attempt at the examination at their own cost. 
7.5. Advancement and promotion 
Advancement is based upon an evaluation of current performance and of the staff member's demonstrated potential for further responsibility. To help the staff member take full advantage of the opportunities within Adanian the Company provides a wide variety of training and development programs to improve staff member's skills. 
To ensure our position as a leading professional services we provide opportunities that enable staff to grow personally and professionally. The increasing demands generated by the diversification of our services, as well as differences in individual development, are considered carefully in planning the programs and practices that we have created to help staff reach their maximum potential and attain their career objectives. 
7.6. Promotion 
Promotions are based on merit and performance where a staff member is not making expected progress through the relevant career grades or is consistently performing at a level that indicates no potential for further advancement, he will be counseled out. 
Key technical competencies determining an individual’s progression within the Company will vary between Lines of Services. However, behavioral competencies are provided in the Company’s performance management system for all grades. Broadly, a staff member's career progress will depend on his demonstrated ability to perform at the next level. 
The Company has broad promotion guidelines. However, Lines of Service have more specific, criteria for promotion based on technical requirements and Key Performance Indicators for each level and area Members of staff should familiarize themselves with the requirements specific to their grades
8. Discrimination, bullying and harassment 
Within the Company, harassment means any conduct that is unwanted by or offensive to an individual. It may relate to gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age, race, color, religion, or disability. Harassment also relates to behavior that can cause an individual to feel threatened, humiliated and or undermined in the workplace. Any kind of harassment is deemed unacceptable and will result in disciplinary action. 
8.1. Rationale for policy; 
Harassment and bullying can undermine self-confidence and initiative and can create a cycle of poor performance and further criticism. It may cause depression, stress, and mental or physical ill health, with consequent absence from work, contribute significantly to poor performance and consequently have an adverse impact on organizational effectiveness. It may have a negative impact on family life and may cause people to leave the Company altogether. 
Many people subjected to harassment or bullying do not complain because they feel intimidated and worry of victimization or don’t want to get the other person into trouble. Although these difficulties are recognized, Adanian encourages Staffs to report harassment or bullying using the procedures outlined below. It is possible that the individual is not the only person to be harassed or bullied by the person concerned and, if left unresolved, others may also be victims. 
Behavior that may constitute harassment includes: 
● offensive, abusive or intimidating behavior, 
● Unwanted physical contact such as touching, patting, pinching, groping or brushing against another Staffs body, 
● leering, whistling or making sexually suggestive gestures, 
● unwelcome sexual advances, propositions or pressure for sexual activity, suggestions for social activity within or outside the workplace after it has been made clear that such suggestions are unwelcome, 
● the display of pornographic or sexually suggestive images, objects or written material, ● intrusion by pestering, spying or stalking, or 
● conduct that ridicules, intimidates or involves physical abuse of an Staff because of race, gender, age, sexual orientation, religion or disability. 
● Any colorless “Jokes” banter, insults or taunts that focus on personal or physical characteristics as defined above. 
● Display or circulation of any offensive or pornographic material, graffiti or racist literature; or sexually suggestive pictures, objects or written materials. 
● The general use of racist language or racist terminology, sexually explicit or provocative language or homophobic language. 
● Excluding people because of a personal characteristic. 
● Insulting or ridiculing the way someone dresses, speaks or behaves. Unwelcome or offensive
questions, remarks or suggestive comments about a personal characteristic. 
● The exercise of undue influence to obtain consent to a sexual relationship. 
All Staffs should consider whether their actions could be deemed to be inappropriate or offensive to others at all times. 
Behavior that may constitute bullying include 
● Aggressive behavior towards others, including unreasonable anger or shouting. 
● Making demeaning remarks to another to injure them personally persistent criticism that focuses on a personal characteristic rather than work performance. 
● Exclusion or victimization. 
● Using unnecessary levels of excessive supervision and interfering with the small details of work. 
● Deliberately withholding work information or unreasonably blocking promotion or training opportunities. 
Dealing with discrimination and harassment 
The following provides an outline of the informal and formal procedures that may be instigated as a result of alleged cases involving discrimination and/or harassment. 
In serious cases such as rape or assault among others, harassment is considered a dismissal offense. The aggrieved party has a right to seek legal redress against the accused. 
It is a good idea for both parties to keep a note of what was said. The two parties can choose to informally 
address the issue. If, because of this informal approach the harassment cases, this will be the end of the matter. 
8.2. Sexual Harassment. 
Sexual harassment is defined as any kind of sexual conduct that is unwelcome and uninvited by the person it is directed to by another person. Such conduct may be explicit or implicit and shall include but is not restricted to verbal, non-verbal, physical, written, audio-visual acts and forms of communication. Every Adanian staff is entitled to employment that is free of sexual harassment. The management will take all relevant and necessary steps to ensure that no employee is subjected to sexual harassment. Disciplinary measures will be visited upon any staff who subjects another to sexual harassment. 
Sexual Harassment is against Kenyan Laws; The Constitution of Kenya (Article 27 & 29); Sexual Offences Act No. 3, 2016; Employment Act of 2007;
