8.2.1. Sexual Harassments Constitutes; 
Direct or indirect requests, demands for sexual intercourse, sexual contact or any other form of sexual activity that: 
● Contains an implied or express promise of preferential treatment in employment; ● Contains an implied or express threat of detrimental treatment in employment; 
Adanina Lab will ensure total confidentiality of the sexual harassment cases reported and shall always act in the best interest of its employees when such cases arise. 
Sexual harassment is unlawful not only during working hours but also in any universally related context including conferences, work functions, sports, work trips and parties. 
Note: Sexual harassment can be obvious or indirect, physical or verbal, repeated or one-off and can take different forms. 
8.3. Forms of Sexual Harassment. 
8.3.1. Physical Sexual Harassment 
This occurs when a victim has been touched in an inappropriate way against his or her own will. 
Subtle pressure for sexual activity; Unwelcome/uninvited physical contact such as massaging a person without invitation, hugging, pinching, patting, grabbing in a sexual manner. repeated unwanted sexual invitations, insistent requests for dinner, drinks or dates, persistent letters, phone calls and other invitations. 
8.3.2. Verbal Sexual Harassment 
This may be oral or written and may include and not limited to: Demeaning references to either the male or female gender; Comments that are sufficiently offensive to cause discomfort and interfere with work or learning. 
Visual Sexual harassment: This is the use of different forms of visual media to suggest inappropriate sexual advances. 
Technological sexual harassment is the inappropriate use of photography, email and Internet. 8.3.3. Sexual Bribery 
Solicitation of sexual activity or other sex-linked behavior by promise of reward; the proposition may be either overt or subtle

8.4. Informal resolution 
When a staff member has been discriminated against or harassed by another Adanian labs Staff or client, the first step is to try to resolve the problem informally. This involves explaining to the alleged harasser that they find their behavior unwelcome, offensive and they wish the behavior to cease. 
If the problem cannot be resolved informally, the staff member should then make a formal complaint to the Human Resource Department. 
All allegations will be dealt with in accordance with the company disciplinary policy. This procedure will not normally be initiated without the prior agreement of the person making the allegation. However, in some circumstances, for example if the alleged action could harm other Staff, then disciplinary procedures will take place without the prior consent of the person making the allegations. 
A person who genuinely feels that he has been subjected to discrimination or harassment and who raises the matter in accordance with these procedures will not be subjected to any detrimental treatment as a result of the complaint. Staff can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Retaliatory action by the person accused of the allegation against a person making a genuine complaint of harassment or discrimination is a disciplinary offense. 
Unwarranted malicious allegations of discrimination and/or harassment may be regarded as gross misconduct and be subject to disciplinary action. 
8.5. Investigations, disciplinary procedures, and gross misconduct 
All staff members are expected to follow the company standards of conduct and performance at all times if for any reason there should be positive action such as coaching and discussion will be taken to improve the situation. Only if these problems persist or the misconduct is considered to be of serious nature then the disciplinary procedure will be used. 
The procedure is not contractual and may be varied from time to time. 
Certain work-related situations may arise out of ignorance, inexperience or carelessness and thus only need to be registered in the performance appraisal. 
Both warning and coaching will be documented and agreed with the staff member. Where appropriate, the staff member will also be given a period (as a norm, three months) within which to demonstrate that understanding. A clear indication will be given that a recurrence of the offense or failure to bring performance in line with expectations will result in appropriate disciplinary action. 
However, other situations may be significant to the development, performance and reputation of the Company. Accordingly, any breach of them calls for disciplinary action. Such circumstances include: 
● any conduct tending to bring the Company into disrepute, 
● any unauthorized disclosures of any matter relating to the business of the Company or its clients, ● the loss arising from the unauthorized use, or the misuse, of any of the Company’s property, 
● conduct unbecoming of a Adanian labs professional or prejudicial to the Company’s objectives and philosophy, including false time reporting,
● any serious or persistent breach of office procedures or the staff member's responsibilities, including lack of punctuality, 
● engagement by the staff member in any private work which is consistent with the Company’s range of services, 
● absence without authorization, including sick leave, or 
● Actions that are not consistent with the values, management style etc. of the Company. 
Prior to any disciplinary action the relevant line manager, or Human Resource Manager/Coordinator will normally carry out an investigation. The purpose of the investigation is to establish the facts and it may include meeting/s with relevant parties. During the investigation, the Company reserves the right to suspend the staff member, without pay. Staff members are expected to co- operate with any disciplinary investigations. 
Prior to a disciplinary interview, the staff member will be: 
● given advance notice of the interview, 
● told of the allegations/complaints against him, and 
● Offered the opportunity to be accompanied by a companion of his choice who will be present as a witness. This companion will be entitled to address the hearing although he will not be able to act on the staff behalf 
8.5.1. Grievance procedure 
The Company will try to resolve, as quickly as possible, any grievance that a staff member may have about their employment. Outlined in this section are the steps that should be taken to make a grievance heard. 
Step 1 - The first step is for the staff member to raise the grievance with their line manager or supervisor or staff partner. However, the staff may also raise their grievance directly with the Human Resource department. 
Step 2 - If the line manager cannot resolve the problem, or the grievance lies with the line manager or supervisor, then the staff member should arrange to see the Human Resource coordinator who will try to find a satisfactory solution. Any decision or proposed action will be given to the staff member in writing within five working days. If the Staff partner decides that further enquiries need to be made, the staff member will be notified of this and will be informed of the outcome in due course. This is facilitated by the Human Resource department 
Step 3 - If a staff member is dissatisfied with the outcome, he should put his grievance, in writing, to the Line of Service leader. A reply may be expected within 10 days of the receipt of the staff-written request 
Step 4 - Should all the channels above fail, the staff member has the right to pass on his grievance to the CEO and is expected to respond within 14 days of the receipt of the written request. The decision is final
For grievances against the Partner or the Company the Staff may appeal to the CEO who will investigate the matter and reach a decision. The decision at this level shall be final. A reply may be expected at this level within 21 days.
9. Disciplinary and separation of service 
9.1. Termination of Contracts 
Pursuant to Sections 35 and 36 of the Employment Act, 2007, parties to an employment contract can terminate the contract through the prescribed notice period or payment of salary in lieu of the notice. A person intending to resign from employment therefore needs to give their employer notice of the resignation and thereafter serve the notice period or in the alternative pay the employer in lieu of notice and the resignation will take effect. 
The Employment and Labor Relations Court (the Court) has settled the position that the act of resignation from employment is a unilateral act and as such it does not require the consent of the employer. An employer has no authority to reject a notice of resignation by an Staff. Rejecting the resignation is tantamount to subjecting the Staff to servitude which contravenes Article 30 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010. Doing so may expose employers to potential claims by Staffs.
