An employer is bound to accept an Staff’s resignation even in instances where such Staff is evading disciplinary action. A Staff member is free to resign from employment at any time when undergoing disciplinary action. However, it is important to note that the Court has distinguished the consequence of immediate resignation and resignation by notice pending a disciplinary process. If an Staff’s resignation is not immediate, that is, he is serving the notice period, the employer retains the jurisdiction to discipline the Staff during the pendency of the notice period. 
Sec 2 of the Employment Act defines redundancy as the ‘loss of employment, occupation, job or career by involuntary means through no fault of an Staff, involving termination of employment at the initiative of the Employer, where the services of an Staff are superfluous, and the practices commonly known as abolition of office, job or occupation and loss of employment’. In simple terms, redundancy refers to the involuntary loss of employment through no fault of the Employer or Staff and mostly occurs when the Staff’s skill is rendered superfluous to the organization’s needs. 
When declaring redundancy, Employers have to note the procedures set out in the Employment Act. Certain stakeholders have to be notified of such decisions. Sec 40 (1) (a) stipulates that if the Staff is a member of a trade union, then such union should be notified together with the Labor Officer at least one month prior to the date of termination on account of redundancies. Where the Staff is not a member of a trade union, sec 40 (1) (b) stipulates that the Staff and Labor Officer be notified personally in writing. Sec 40 (1) (c) of the Act further provides that employers have to have due regard as to seniority in time and
skill, ability, and reliability of each Staff of the particular class of Staffs affected by the redundancy. Where 
there exist two or more Staffs to be affected by the redundancy process, then the one who came in later as to employment is essentially the one to go. 
Procedurally, when declaring a position redundant, the following steps have to be followed. Notify all Staffs of the organization’s intention to declare redundancy. This is to allow for negotiations between the organization and Staffs. The purpose of this notice is to give the parties an opportunity to consider measures to be taken to avert or minimize the terminations and measures to mitigate the adverse effects of any terminations on the workers concerned such as finding alternative employment. Such consultations must be genuine. 
Provide grounds for declaring redundancy. Some of these grounds include but are not limited to the organization’s inability to sustain its organization’s wages and salaries, the organization’s skill being superfluous to the organization’s needs, the organization’s closure of business, the organization’s merger and or acquisition. Select and notify the Staffs affected. This should be done in a fair manner and the employers should not use such opportunities to get rid of Staffs they do not like. The decision to declare them redundant and the reasons thereof should be indicated in their termination letters. 
Staffs declared redundant have a right to be paid their leave days not taken in cash and severance pay of not less than 15 days’ pay for each completed year of service. The employer also has to pay the Staff declared redundant not less than one month’s notice or one month’s wages in lieu of notice. 
9.2. Common laws of termination of Employment in Kenya 
Termination of employment in Kenya is common among employers and professionals. It is important for them to understand the laws around termination to avoid legal issues after terminating an Staff. An Staff leaving the company can happen by choice or by their employer. 
Common laws of termination of employment in Kenya There are four common laws that govern lawful termination. They include: 
a. Termination of employment by agreement/ Expiry of fixed-term appointment/ Contract; This is where both the employer and Staff agree to bring a contract of employment to an end in accordance with the agreement. For example, when an internship ends. A fixed-term appointment shall expire automatically and without prior notice on the expiration date specified in the letter of appointment and/or contract unless renewed in writing prior to the expiration date. 
b. Resignation: This happens when an Staff due to breach of contract decides to resign from employment. A resignation is a separation from Adanian Labs initiated by the staff member. A staff
member resigning must give Adanian Labs four weeks written notice or one-week written notice in 
the case of staff members on probation. The Human Resource Manager may accept resignation on shorter notice. The HRM may decline to accept the resignation of a staff member and instead terminate the staff member where issues of gross misconduct are concerned. Once accepted, a resignation may not be withdrawn by the staff member without the expressed agreement of the CEO. 
c. Automatic termination: A contract can automatically come to an end in the, for instance, death or loss of the business. When the specified terms of a contractual relationship come to an end. Termination of appointment by notice, redundancy, or summary dismissal or Death. 
d. Retirement: Employment of a staff member ends at the end of the month in which the staff member's 65th birthday falls. 
e. Abandonment of Post. A staff member abandons his/her post or office when he or she fails without an excuse acceptable to the Manager responsible for the position, to make himself or herself available to perform official duties for a total of 20 working days in any one year. 
f. Termination of employment by an employer: An employer can also terminate the contract. However, there is a need to agree with the law and contract relating to letting go of an Staff. 
9.3. What can make an employer terminate me? 
According to the Employment Act sections 45(2) and 46. An employer has to prove for termination of employment in Kenya. Otherwise, it is termed as illegal. An employer can let go of an Staff due to: 
a. Poor performance 
b. Misconduct 
c. Physical Incapacity 
d. Participation in an illegal strike 
e. Retrenchment 
9.4. What is a Notice Period? 
An employer is allowed by Kenyan law to terminate an Staff without notice. However, an employer is required to pay you a sum equal to the salary you would have received during the notice period. In addition, if you quit without notice to your employer, you are required to compensate your employer for the duration they should have served the notice.
According to the law, a termination notice should be in writing. In case the Staff does not understand the 
notice, the employer should have the notice explained orally in a language the Staff understands. Any of the following shall constitute separation from service, subject to the employment Act of the Republic of Kenya: 
9.5. Termination for Redundancy 
Employment may become redundant when Adanian Labs needs to meet changing budgetary constraints and/or to improve administrative efficiency. Implementing such necessary changes may result in: 
a. An entire organizational unit being abolished. 
b. A specific position or set of functions performed by an individual in an organizational unit being abolished. 
c. Types or levels of positions being changed or reduced in number. 
9.5.1. Decision on redundancy 
A decision that a staff member's employment is redundant will be made by the CEO with the concurrence of the Board. Where positions are reduced in number resulting in redundancies, the selection of staff members whose employment is redundant will be made on the basis of managerial judgment about the skills needed by Adanian Labs to carry out its work effectively, taking into account the following factors: 
a. Whether the abilities and experience of staff members can be used elsewhere in Adanian Labs; 
b. The existence of volunteers for termination who are willing to accept severance payments as set out further below. 
c. The performance (including professional and work-place behavior) of staff members. 
d. The seniority in time, skill, ability, and reliability of each staff member affected by the redundancy. 
9.5.2. Notice of termination for redundancy 
A staff member whose employment has been declared redundant will receive one month’s written notice giving reasons for the redundancy. In lieu of notice, Adanian Labs may provide a payment equal to one month salary to the staff member. Such payments in lieu will not be considered part of severance pay. 9.5.3. Severance payments 
Staff members whose appointments are terminated on grounds of redundancy will be entitled to payments equal to all outstanding salary, pro rata salary for any accrued but not taken leave days and severance pay at the rate of at fifteen days’ pay for each completed year of service.
9.6. Termination for unsatisfactory performance or service 
A decision to separate a staff member for unsatisfactory performance may be made by a Senior Manager, on the basis of a recommendation from the staff member’s immediate Manager taking into account the comments of the staff member, if any, and with the concurrence of the CEO. 
9.6.1. Notice for Termination for unsatisfactory performance 
A staff member whose employment is being terminated for unsatisfactory performance will receive one month’s written notice. In lieu of notice, Adanian Labs may provide a payment equal to one month's salary to the staff member. 
9.7. Termination for ill health or disability 
The employment of a staff member whose physical or mental condition or extended illness renders him or her incapacitated for further service as determined by a qualified medical practitioner may be terminated after exhaustion of any sick leave entitlement. 
9.7.1. Notice for Termination for ill health or disability 
A staff member whose employment is being terminated as a consequence of illness or disability will receive one month’s written notice. In lieu of notice, Adaninan Labs may provide a payment equal to one month's salary to the staff member. 
